# VRland

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

This file will become the README and documentation index for the
upcoming standalone implementation of the *Valley-Ridge* score
landscapes.

**VRland** allows to visualise single-cell differentiation processes on
a Waddington-like landscape by combining the global cellular
relationships captured by PHATE as ‘longitude and latitude’ axes, with a
Valley-Ridge (VR) score based on cellular pluripotency and RNA velocity.
The resulting VR landscape altitude captures the differentiation
potential of a cell population, with the valley-ridge topology
delineating local plasticity.

For an example of the current implementation as a single Jupyter
Notebook, please see the work on [Qin & Cardoso Rodriguez *et al.*
2023](https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.02.15.528008) and it’s [associated
GitHub
repository](https://github.com/TAPE-Lab/Qin-CardosoRodriguez-et-al) (VR
score and landscape generation can be found within the Figure 7
directory).

This repository contains a development version of VRland where
additional distance metrics to determine the Ridge component will be
explored.

Ultimately, the aim is to deploy this notebook-based tool as an
interactive web-app.

## How to use

A brief tutorial will be coming soon…

For now refer to the individual score and landscape notebooks in this
repo, or to the work on [Qin & Cardoso Rodriguez *et al.*
2023](https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.02.15.528008) and it’s [associated
GitHub
repository](https://github.com/TAPE-Lab/Qin-CardosoRodriguez-et-al).

### Install

Currently, the pre-release VRland tool can be used by cloning its GitHub
repository and locally installing the package from the repo root
directory with:

``` sh
pip install -e ".[dev]"    
```

It will eventually be available on Python Package Index.
